# Manvith Initial Self Assessment

My team’s senior design project is all about putting everything I have learned from my previous classes together and test my knowledge and expertise. Essentially, the project’s goal is to be able to build a functional, useful, and reliable piece of software. The software we are planning to build is a health-based app. Specifically, we are hoping to develop an application that analyzes nutrition content in a variety of foods and potentially help users track and achieve their fitness/dietary goals. Personally, I see this project to be my defining opportunity to put all my skills in practice and produce something fruitful out of it. Prior work experience during co-ops has a significant impact on the development of this project’s idea and planning in terms of determining technical requirements, scale, and scope of the project.

The college curriculum has provided me with a breadth of experience and knowledge with the kinds of courses that were offered. Specifically, EECE3093C – Software Engineering has broadened my understanding of the software development planning, documentation, scope, and scheduling. CS2028C – Data Structures has introduced me to the inner workings of basic structures that we use everyday while also increasing my understanding of building functions, objects, and files that can be reused efficiently. CS4092 – Database Design/Development has provided me with an in-depth understanding of data storage, database modeling, and design. All this knowledge will aid the development of our project to be more technically robust and help achieve the reliability standards that we are aiming for. All in all, the knowledge I have gained from other courses such as Technical Writing, Python Programming, etc. will also assist me in ensuring that the project goes through a smooth development process while also meeting our expectations.

The five co-op experiences have completely changed my perspective of software development and its inner workings. For the most of them, I have worked at the same firm - Fox Corporation. Initially, I have worked as a full-stack developer and essentially improved all my technical abilities. Specifically, I have worked with API development, database management, deployment tools, etc. In the later rotations, I have taken up the role of a Machine Learning intern. During my time as a Machine Learning intern, I have furthered my understanding of API development pertaining to Machine Learning features. Primarily, I have leveraged AWS tools and Machine Learning specific platforms to build, test, and deploy Machine Learning functions. The culmination of all the co-op experiences will guide me in the development of this project by helping me to better work with my team members.

My primary motivation for this project is that I believe that this project will make a difference in the real world by solving real problems. A health-based application that can provide its users with working solutions has been a personal area of interest for me for a long time. As someone who likes to maintain a healthy daily routine in terms of food consumption, I can imagine the positive impact that this application could potentially have on its users. With a plethora of unreliable healthcare apps available in the market, I feel it is of high importance to make an application available to everyone that is both specific and reliable by its nature. At this point, my preliminary approach would be to layout fundamental aspects of the project by determining scale, scope, and design direction. Subsequently, carrying out research to determine what the existing healthcare apps do and what is actually necessary to be done. Once that is set in stone, I would proceed with the development of the application.

As for the expected results, I personally need the application to be minimalistic while still adding value to its existence. Primarily, I would want the application to be functional, mostly bug-free, and reliable. I understand that bugs are inevitable in a software’s life cycle and do not expect our project to be completely big-free. Once the software development process reaches a stage where it does not break very often and is considerably reliable on a day-to-day basis, I would see that as an accomplishment. For self-evaluation, I am considering maintaining a journal that keeps a track of my progress and helps me make sure I deliver my responsibilities. By the end of the development process, I would then crosscheck with my initial goals for the role I pick to ensure that I have met the expectations. That way, I can determine if I have done a good job.
