The senior design project is a culmination of all our skills put to use in order to make a cohesive product. This will be a useful experience that bridges the gap between the theory of the classroom and the practical skills learned on co-op. Often in the classroom, we are learning the principles of the underlying technologies that we use today but never make an actual full product. On co-op, we often learn how to use the understanding from the classroom to develop an actual product, but often times are building on a product that already exists or has been thought up by the company. It will be unique to work on a product from idea conception all the way through to making a finished product and having to make design decisions every step of the way without anything being decided for us. This will surely come with some errors but will provide valuable experience by going through each step of the development process from scratch in making a real product.

The college curriculum will provide useful experience for the project’s development. I think the most directly useful course might be EECE3093C Software Engineering because it teaches about a project’s development cycle and how to effectively create a roadmap for the project to keep a project on course. Another course, CS4092 Database Design and Development could prove to be useful when deciding what the most effective way would be to store our data and how to successfully work with that data. CS2028C Data Structures could be useful, even though most of the data structures we learned to create are widely available to be used, it’s helpful to know which data structure to use in which situation in order to more efficiently interact with data. Although not likely to make it into the final version of our web app due to time constraints, CS5173 Deep Learning may come into use if we decide to implement a recommendation system or for analyzing data as a potential product feature. A class like ENGL4092 Technical and Scientific Writing would be useful for writing proper documentation and the design documents for the project.

I did five rotations at London Computer Systems which is a company that makes rent management software. My first co-op, I was in QA and created and executed test plans. This will be useful as we get into the later stages of our project to create an organized way to make sure our project is working as expected. The rest of my rotations were working as a full stack web developer using an angular frontend and .NET backend. This experience will be directly relevant since we will be making a web app. While we will most likely not use the technologies that I have direct experience in, I’ve worked with other similar technologies, and they are similar enough to where the skills will transfer over to whatever we end up choosing. Also, the skills of working on a team on a large product with a large codebase is a valuable skill that will transfer over from co-op.

For our project, we are planning to create a web and potentially mobile based app in the nutrition/health space. We do not have a final decision on the full direction we want to take it yet but have several potential more specific project ideas in the nutrition/health space we can explore. One project we are exploring is tracking mental health alongside nutritional intake to recognize correlations between the two to understand what foods/ingredients affect how you feel. Another potential project would be trying to create a flavor profile for someone and giving specific recipe recommendations based on the profile. This area of technology is exciting and motivating to work on as it can be something I use myself to improve my own life as nutrition/health pertains to everyone. I am motivated to create a real-world project that provides value even if it does not necessarily reach many people.

Once we decide on a clearer direction from the project, we will nail down the key features that we want to implement. After we find exactly what we think we need, we can add some additional features that would be nice to add if time permits. We can then make a timeline where we would ideally have each of the features implemented and assigning roles in the team that gives everyone a clear task to complete. We will have to make decisions on what technologies we want to use and how we want the product to look like before development would begin. After all this planning is complete, actual development of the project can begin. As far as evaluating levels of contribution, the roles will be decided as a team to give everyone an equal workload and as long as each member completes their role to the design specification we all decide on before development, then a full contribution was made. If we make a thorough enough design plan at the beginning, there shouldn’t be a question whether something is done or not. Revisions could be made along the way as necessary as long as they don’t stray away too far from the initially design since we have a constrained time limit to complete the project.
