The senior design project is a way to work together within our major to create a demonstration of both what we have learned over the past 4-5 years, but also to explore a shared interest and focus area as a team. Successful completion will draw on our skills that we've developed in organizing projects, solving specific technical problems, and coordinating as a team. Our group has decided to develop a new kind of nutrition analytics system, which will have a unique backend and data engine. Then we hope to develop either a web app or mobile app to make it easy for end-users to interact with the data engine to get insights that wouldn't be possible with most existing services.

The project will draw on traditional software engineering practices, especially since we are working as a larger team and will be developing software that makes use of very different mediums and infrastructures. For example, we will probably use an issue tracker like Jira or similar, with tagging and categorization based on topics like the current month, the underlying language and libraries, and who on the team will be responsible. This will be aided by skills and knowledge I got from EECE3093.

As far as experience I gained from co-ops, I've specifically worked in roles where I was responsible for maintaining and analyzing large datasets, so I look forward to using these skills in this project. Specifically, I intend to find disparate nutrient datasets and integrate them together in a queryable dataset.

Our motivation for choosing this category is because we all have a shared interest in personal health and self-improvement. We're all pretty familiar with common sense diet advice, as well as popular hearsay about what kinds of foods are good for you and what kinds are bad. But we all agreed that our analytical proclivities would be satisfied with a more numbers-based approach to diet planning. We'd like to lay out the constraints and knowledge that people have gathered about nutrition: for example RDA values from the National Academy of Medicine and other scientifically-grounded advice like how to determine macronutrient ratios and how to budget calories based on basal metabolic rate and weight gain/loss goals.

I'd like to grow in my capacity to be consistent with long-term planning. The senior design project is going to be the longest-term software project I've worked on so far (8+ months!) so this will be a great way to develop that skill. Long-term planning will require planning out work over a long time span and being consistent: focusing on the work at hand while also not losing sight of the big picture.
