# Brandon Final Self Assessment

My individual contribution to the project was creating the frontend for our nutrition recommendation web application. We decided to use Flask for our backend since our group members were using python for the data portion of our project, so we thought it would make the most sense to use python for the api as well. Flask has a html template syntax that you can use, which is what I initially started trying to use but it was limited in its capabilities for what we needed. I decided it would be best to switch over to React which is something I don’t have professional experience in, but I have looked into it for side projects before. I used tailwind css which is a library that helps you implement styling very quickly once you are familiar with the class syntax it uses. Flask was something I had heard of before but had never used, so it was good to get experience with.

My success was creating a simple to use frontend for our application that managed and displayed their data in a clean, easy to read way. My biggest obstacle was trying to get the application to work in a cloud environment. This ended up not being an issue once we found out that the expo would be in an offline environment. We switched our app from running on the cloud to running locally using the browser’s localStorage which was another thing I didn’t have experience in but was easy enough to set up. I learned a lot about different technologies such as Flask and got to build upon my skills in React and its related technologies. Although I wasn’t directly involved, I learned a lot about the data portion of our project, from how to pick good sources of data and mold it into a usable format, and how to use this data to perform calculations that resulted in giving the user nutrition recommendations.
