# Sarah Final Self Assessment

Having completed all of my co-ops in the area of mobile app development, there were several ways I could contribute to my team’s senior design project. Since our selected project was a web application, there were numerous opportunities to apply my skills in mobile app development, both technically and non-technically. On the programmatic side of things, building a web application is very similar to building a mobile app, as both include designing the user interface, building out this interface in code, configuring the development environment, and much more. Earlier on in our project’s development, I drafted and finalized the user interface and user experience design for our application, Sabrosa Health. To help determine the user flow and overall architecture of our web app, I was able to draw on my previous experience of working closely with UI/UX designers on various mobile projects. In addition to formulating the design of Sabrosa Health, I created and set up our project on Google Cloud Platform. Once a project was created in GCP, I set up our initial development environment using Python’s Flask framework. Having worked with GCP and Flask beforehand both in the classroom and during my co-op rotations, I was very familiar with this process and was able to directly apply my knowledge in this area. Throughout the rest of our project’s development, I worked alongside Brandon in building out the frontend components of the application. Overall, I also took on the role of a project manager for our team, making sure that assignments were completed in a timely manner, and that project development was progressing steadily. 

Throughout the time spent working on our senior design project, I learned several things about myself both personally and professionally. Working on a web development project further solidified my interest in mobile/web development as a career. Having not worked on a mobile or web software project in quite some time, I wasn’t sure if my interests would change; however, contributing to Sabrosa Health helped me further realize where my passions within the field of Computer Science lie. While I was able to successfully contribute to several aspects of our project as mentioned in the above paragraph, I encountered several obstacles throughout the spring semester. During the beginning of February, I started to experience continual digestive issues, often which left me with little to no energy or capacity to work. Determining the cause of the issues is still in progress, so dealing with constant health issues while working our senior design project, and finishing the semester in general, has been very difficult. My team has been very flexible, gracious, and understanding of my situation, and through this  I have come to realize the importance of working in an atmosphere that is supportive, kind, and understanding when circumstances change. Despite these challenges, I was able to help our team finish developing our project in time for the expo. 

